Update Code Of Conduct (#2)
woodcrest-university/community-charter: code-of-conduct.md

# Code of Conduct

### Embrace Diversity

> Woodcrest is a vibrant tapestry of roleplay experiences, languages, and styles. We celebrate diversity and strive to create an inclusive environment where everyone feels welcome and respected, regardless of their background or experience level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Woodcrest is a diverse community of roleplay experiences, languages, and styles. We strive to create an inclusive environment where everyone feels welcome and respected, regardless of their background or experience level.
```

Trying to avoid fluffy language and aware that vibrant tapestry may not be the most clear language for non-native English speakers.

If an unexpected situation arises during an event that would realistically call for a change in focus or direction, proceed with the roleplay in a manner that does not significantly undermine the event's intended purpose or disrupt the experience for other participants.

If you have ideas for substantial changes, additions, or prolonged interruptions to an event, discuss them with the event organizers in advance through out-of-character (OOC) communication. Collaborate with them to find ways to incorporate your ideas seamlessly and in a manner that enhances rather than detracts from the event.

Avoid using OOC influence or information to manipulate events or the actions of other characters. Respect the autonomy and agency of all participants, and allow the roleplay to unfold naturally based on in-character motivations and decisions.

Event organizers have the final say in how to proceed with any unexpected interruptions or changes during their events. Respect their decisions and work with them to maintain a cohesive and enjoyable experience for everyone involved.

### Uphold Community Standards

> Woodcrest welcomes a diverse range of avatars, including humans, anthromorphic characters, and ferals. However, we expect all residents to adhere to community standards of decency and respect.

Reviewer: Thought all characters had to be human presenting? You could have a realistic attachment pet but beyond that. We've even kinda given a pass to elf-ears so far.

Author: Asked @HanakoBlossom for clarification on this as well.

Avatars should be appropriately attired and refrain from overtly sexual or explicit displays in public spaces. Clothing and accessories should be tasteful and non-offensive.

> When portraying characters of different ages, especially minors, ensure that your behavior, interactions, and storylines are age-appropriate and do not engage in or depict any form of abuse, exploitation, or sexual content involving underage characters.

Reviewer: We don't allow minors? This really should state: all characters must be and present over the age of 18. For the latter half we could cover it by saying "don't do anything that breaks LL ToS"

Author: Agree, would rather have explicitly termed examples of what is not permitted, including citations to Linden ToS.

### Practice Responsible Roleplay

In Woodcrest, we encourage creative freedom and dynamic storylines, but we also emphasize responsible roleplay practices. Avoid gratuitous violence, gore, or excessively graphic content.

When engaging in combat or conflict-related roleplay, use appropriate tools and systems to determine outcomes fairly. Avoid god-modding or power-gaming to maintain a balance and respect for all participants.

If exploring mature themes or storylines, do so with sensitivity, consent, and appropriate content warnings. Be mindful of the potential impact on others and provide clear indicators or opt-in mechanisms for those who wish to engage.

### Respect Privacy and Personal Boundaries

Woodcrest values the privacy and personal boundaries of all residents. Respect designated private spaces and refrain from entering or accessing them without explicit permission from the owners or occupants.

Avoid sharing or disclosing personal information about other community members without their consent. Respect the privacy and anonymity of those who choose to keep their real-life identities separate from their online personas.

> If you capture screenshots or recordings within Woodcrest, obtain consent from all individuals involved before sharing or publishing them in any public forum.

Reviewer: Is this true? This would be a rule that would be currently broken _all_ the time if it existed. Let alone within the paper. Personally I would remove this line entirely and rely on common sense or have it covered by the expectation of privacy.

Author: This was a suggestion by @HanakoBlossom and big if true.  Can we please drop this line? 
```suggestion
```

_**Note:** The administration reserves the right to interpret and enforce this Code of Conduct as necessary to maintain the integrity and well-being of the Woodcrest community. Any decisions made by the administration regarding the application of these guidelines are final._

### Additional Notes

Any information or situations not explicitly covered in this Code of Conduct will be addressed and determined by the Woodcrest administration on a case-by-case basis.

The Woodcrest administration reserves the right to return items and remove or prohibit the use of any vehicles deemed unfit or inappropriate for the community without prior notice.

The administration has the authority to permit, modify, or terminate any RP scenario involving any avatar to maintain the integrity and standards of the Woodcrest community.

All residents are expected to comply with the instructions and decisions made by the Woodcrest administrators in the interest of maintaining a safe and enjoyable roleplay environment for all.

> _**Indemnification:** Woodcrest Township, its owners, administrators, and staff (collectively referred to as "Woodcrest") shall not be held liable for any damages or losses resulting from the actions of its visitors, residents, or employees. Furthermore, Woodcrest is not responsible for any region performance issues or the loss of no-copy items due to factors beyond its control, such as rollbacks, sim crashes, or returned objects. In the event of lost inventory, affected residents should contact Linden Lab directly for assistance._

Reviewer: Do we really need this?

Author: I think it's better to keep it than to omit it tbh.

# Woodcrest Code of Conduct

Welcome to Woodcrest, a community where diversity, creativity, and respect form the bedrock of our shared experience. As members of this vibrant world, it is crucial that we adhere to a code of conduct and sim rules that uphold the integrity and enjoyment of all participants. Here is our comprehensive guide to ensuring a positive, inclusive, and enriching environment for everyone:

> 1. **Embrace and Respect Diversity**: Woodcrest is a diverse mosaic of roleplay experiences and backgrounds. We champion inclusivity and encourage all members to lead by example, fostering an environment where guidance is given with respect, not elitism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Embrace and Respect Diversity**: Woodcrest is a diverse community of roleplay experiences and backgrounds. We champion inclusivity and encourage all members to lead by example, fostering an environment where guidance is given with respect, not elitism.
```

(I'm being pedantic to show review features)

Reviewer 2: I like this

Author: Accounted for in 083ca5ae6200179ab46fc45830f967d3d37ce86e

1. **Communication is Key**: Open and respectful communication, primarily through local chat, is encouraged to maintain inclusivity. While private messages have their place, consent and privacy must always be respected to prevent harassment.

> 1. **Consent and Boundaries**: Consent is the cornerstone of interaction here. Avoid imposing scenarios on others without their agreement. Public roleplay should not infringe on community comfort, and sensitive content must be approached with discretion. We strictly prohibit excessive violence and discriminatory language, both in public and private settings.

Reviewer: > We strictly prohibit excessive violence

We should probably define what "excessive violence" actually means somewhere.

Reviewer 2: **Excessive Violence:** Graphic or gratuitous depictions of violence that go beyond what is necessary for the story or scene. This includes:

1. Detailed descriptions of gore, mutilation, or extreme physical harm
2. Prolonged or repetitive acts of brutality or cruelty
3. Sexualized violence or non-consensual sexual acts
4. Glorification or trivialization of real-world atrocities or hate crimes
5. Violence targeting vulnerable or marginalized groups in a discriminatory manner

Roleplay involving combat, action, or mild violence is generally acceptable, as long as it is consensual, plot-relevant, and does not cross the line into excessive or gratuitous territory. When in doubt, err on the side of caution and respect the boundaries and comfort levels of all participants.

It's essential to note that consent and clear communication are crucial in any roleplay scenario involving violence. All parties must agree to the content and intensity of the interaction, and anyone should feel free to withdraw consent at any time if they become uncomfortable.

If you encounter instances of excessive violence, please report them to the moderation team, who will review the situation and take appropriate action in accordance with our community guidelines.

Remember, the goal is to foster a supportive and inclusive environment where everyone can engage in roleplay without feeling threatened, harassed, or exposed to content that exceeds their personal boundaries.

Author: We should still find a place for this, given the latest revision.

Author: Accommodated under Additional Notes at the bottom, as it was a definition and I didn't think it warranted its own code.

1. **Minimize Drama**: Approach conflicts constructively and respect the community by avoiding slander and toxicity. Strive for peaceful resolutions and maintain a positive environment.
1. **Consent and Boundaries**: Consent is the cornerstone of interaction here. Avoid imposing scenarios on others without their agreement. Public roleplay should not infringe on community comfort, and sensitive content must be approached with discretion. We strictly prohibit excessive violence and discriminatory language, both in public and private settings.

1. **Enhance, Don’t Replace**: Use shouts, dances, and gestures to complement, not overshadow, roleplay. Excessive or disruptive gestures, along with out-of-character shouts, are not permitted. Griefing, trolling, and unsolicited promotions are grounds for disciplinary action.
1. **Drama and Disruptions**: Constructive conflict resolution is essential. Slander, toxicity, and behaviors that disturb the peace are not tolerated. Scheduled events should not be interrupted without prior consent, emphasizing respect for the planning and effort involved.

> 1. **Respect Events**: Do not interrupt scheduled events without prior agreement with the organizers. Understand the effort behind event planning and maintain a collaborative spirit.

Reviewer 2: We changed this somewhat during a RPWG meeting where it falls on using common sense in a realistic setting. Which is also confusing.

I had some thoughts on this:

**Respect Events:** Events are a cornerstone of our community, and they require significant time, effort, and coordination to plan and execute. To ensure that events run smoothly and that everyone has an enjoyable experience, we ask that you adhere to the following guidelines:

1. Do not intentionally disrupt or derail scheduled events without prior agreement from the event organizers. This includes actions that would require a significant shift in focus away from the event's intended purpose, such as staging a medical emergency or initiating a major conflict.

2. However, we recognize that unexpected and spontaneous roleplay can add to the realism and immersion of our community. If a situation arises during an event that would realistically call for a change in focus, such as a minor injury or a brief interruption, feel free to proceed with the roleplay as long as it does not significantly derail the event.

3. If you plan to introduce a more substantial or prolonged interruption to an event, please first discuss your idea with the event organizers out of character (OOC). They can work with you to find a way to incorporate your roleplay in a manner that doesn't disrupt the event's flow or undermine the efforts of the organizers and participants.

4. Avoid using OOC influence to manipulate events or other characters' actions. Roleplay should be driven by in-character motivations and decisions.

5. If an unexpected interruption occurs during an event, the event organizers have the discretion to decide how to proceed. They may choose to incorporate the interruption into the event, or they may ask participants to pause the interruption until the event has concluded.

Remember, the goal is to balance spontaneity and realism with respect for the time and effort invested in event planning. By communicating openly and working together, we can create a collaborative and engaging roleplay experience for everyone involved. If you have any questions or concerns about event interruptions or this policy, please reach out to the moderation team for guidance.

Author: Accounted for in 083ca5ae6200179ab46fc45830f967d3d37ce86e

> 1. **Roleplay Etiquette**: Enhancements like shouts and gestures should support, not overshadow, roleplay. We discourage any form of griefing, trolling, and spamming, as these actions detract from our collective experience.

Reviewer: > gestures

I'm always torn on this in an IC sense. People use this _really_ badly and I can't think of many situations where they are appropriate.

Reviewer 2: We changed this somewhat during a RPWG meeting where it falls on using common sense in a realistic setting. Which is also confusing.

I had some thoughts on this:

**Respect Events**: Events are a cornerstone of our community, and they require significant time, effort, and coordination to plan and execute. To ensure that events run smoothly and that everyone has an enjoyable experience, we ask that you adhere to the following guidelines:

1. Do not intentionally disrupt or derail scheduled events without prior agreement from the event organizers. This includes actions that would require a significant shift in focus away from the event's intended purpose, such as staging a medical emergency or initiating a major conflict.

2. However, we recognize that unexpected and spontaneous roleplay can add to the realism and immersion of our community. If a situation arises during an event that would realistically call for a change in focus, such as a minor injury or a brief interruption, feel free to proceed with the roleplay as long as it does not significantly derail the event.

3. If you plan to introduce a more substantial or prolonged interruption to an event, please first discuss your idea with the event organizers out of character (OOC). They can work with you to find a way to incorporate your roleplay in a manner that doesn't disrupt the event's flow or undermine the efforts of the organizers and participants.

4. Avoid using OOC influence to manipulate events or other characters' actions. Roleplay should be driven by in-character motivations and decisions.

5. If an unexpected interruption occurs during an event, the event organizers have the discretion to decide how to proceed. They may choose to incorporate the interruption into the event, or they may ask participants to pause the interruption until the event has concluded.

Remember, the goal is to balance spontaneity and realism with respect for the time and effort invested in event planning. By communicating openly and working together, we can create a collaborative and engaging roleplay experience for everyone involved. If you have any questions or concerns about event interruptions or this policy, please reach out to the moderation team for guidance.

Author: Accounted for in 083ca5ae6200179ab46fc45830f967d3d37ce86e

> 1. **Roleplay Etiquette**: Enhancements like shouts and gestures should support, not overshadow, roleplay. We discourage any form of griefing, trolling, and spamming, as these actions detract from our collective experience.

Reviewer: > gestures

I'm always torn on this in an IC sense. People use this _really_ badly and I can't think of many situations where they are appropriate.

> 1. **Community Identity**: Wear your Woodcrest group tag proudly. If you need to step away, please use designated AFK zones or tags to inform others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Community Identity**: Wear your Woodcrest group tag while on sim. If you need to step away, please use designated AFK zones or tags to inform others.
```

Author: Accounted for in 083ca5ae6200179ab46fc45830f967d3d37ce86e
